{"author":{"id":"c52cb19fb02c210e51792121b2bae318d19fa8efb308ae796946bf1f79891ad1"},"ops":[{"type":1,"timestamp":1784455489,"nonce":"Ojatnt/Bdyo4dkfEEJtFlV8XaKU=","title":"PG domains over user-defined base types and NOT VALID/ordering edges","message":"Follow-up to acb1c6d Phase 3 PR 4 (PostgreSQL domains, merged c1e40d0 / PR #114). PR 4 fully delivers the scalar-based, squealy-authored domain contract (NOT NULL, DEFAULT, multiple named CHECKs; publish then introspect then replan-empty, live-tested on PG). These five edges were deferred with maintainer sign-off; none is silent corruption in that contract.\n\n1. Domain whose base is a user-defined type (an enum or another domain). Three coupled gaps: (a) introspection returns the base as an unqualified name (format_type drops the schema on search_path) while the model needs a qualified Raw, so every replan emits a rejected AlterDomain base-type change; (b) a domain based on another newly created domain needs topological create/reverse-drop ordering, not name order; (c) an enum-backed domain default such as ok deparsed by PG as a typed literal is kept as Raw instead of the desired Text, producing a perpetual AlterDomain. Fix: derive the base from its catalog schema and name as domain-typed columns already do, retain the base typtype for enum-aware default decoding, and order domain creates/drops by dependency like views.\n\n2. A tightening ALTER DOMAIN (add CHECK or SET NOT NULL) is emitted in the pre-table phase; if the same migration also drops or converts a domain-typed column holding rows that violate the new constraint, PostgreSQL validates against those doomed rows and aborts the plan. Fix: split domain alterations into a dependency-aware post-table phase rather than hoisting every alteration before table work.\n\n3. A domain CHECK added on a live DB via ALTER DOMAIN ADD CONSTRAINT ... NOT VALID introspects as validated (validation None). The model currently rejects NOT VALID domain checks outright, so squealy never emits one; the only gap is that squealy extract of an externally-authored NOT VALID domain check silently flattens it to validated. This is Phase-4 external-DB fidelity. Fix (if pursued): select convalidated and populate NotValidated so extract is faithful (and republish then fails loudly on the unsupported form) or add real NOT VALID domain-check support.\n\nCommon thread: all are domains outside the scalar, squealy-authored, replan-empty case. Failure modes are a rejected/aborted plan (loud) or an external-DB fidelity gap, not silent data corruption.","files":null}]}